# A basic webserver


Running arbitrary Linux commands inside a Docker container is fun, but let's do something more useful.

Pull down the ``atbaker/nginx-example`` Docker image from the Docker Hub. This Docker image uses the `Nginx <http://nginx.org/>`_ webserver to serve a static HTML website.

Start a new container from the ``atbaker/nginx-example`` image that exposes port 80 from the container to port 8000 on your host. You will need to use the ``-p`` flag with the docker run command.

.. note::

    Mapping ports between your host machine and your containers can get confusing. Here is the syntax you will use::

        docker run -p 8000:80 IMAGE_NAME

    The trick is to remember that **the host port always goes on the left**, and **the container port always goes on the right.**

    I like to think of it from the perspective of an incoming request, which would first go through port 8000 on your host and then be forwarded to port 80 on your container.

Open a web browser and go to port 8000 on your host. The exact address will depend on how you're running Docker today:

* **Native Linux** - http://localhost:8000
* **Cloud server** - Use the hostname for your server. Ex: http://ec2-54-69-126-146.us-west-2.compute.amazonaws.com:8000

If you see "Hello Docker" then you're done! Press **control + c** in your terminal window to stop your container.

More advanced docker commands
-----------------------------

Before you go on, use the `Docker command line interface <https://docs.docker.com/reference/commandline/cli/>`_ documentation to try a few more commands:

* Start the same container exposing the same port, but run the container in "detached" mode, so that it doesn't tie up your command line
* While your detached container is running, use the ``docker ps`` command to see what silly name Docker gave your container. **This is one command you're going to use often!**
* While your detached container is still running, look at its logs. Try following its logs and refreshing your browser.
* Stop your detached container. Then delete that container from your system.

.. note::

    When running most docker commands, you only need to specify the first few characters of a container's ID.

    For example, if a container has the ID ``df4fd19392ba``, you can stop it with ``docker stop df4``. You can also use the silly names Docker provides containers by default, such as ``boring_bardeen``.
