# constructing the docker image

Running containers others made is useful, but if you want to use docker for production, chances are that you want to construct a container on your own.


### Dockerfile commands summary

Here's a quick summary of the few basic commands we will use in our Dockerfile.

- FROM
- RUN
- ADD and COPY
- CMD
- EXPOSE

* `FROM` starts the Dockerfile. It is a requirement that the Dockerfile must start with the `FROM` command. Images are created in layers, which means you can use another image as the base image for your own. The `FROM` command defines your base layer. As arguments, it takes the name of the image. Optionally, you can add the Docker Hub username of the maintainer and image version, in the format `username/imagename:version`.

* `RUN` is used to build up the Image you're creating. For each `RUN` command, Docker will run the command then create a new layer of the image. This way you can roll back your image to previous states easily. The syntax for a `RUN` instruction is to place the full text of the shell command after the `RUN` (e.g., `RUN mkdir /user/local/foo`). This will automatically run in a `/bin/sh` shell. You can define a different shell like this: `RUN /bin/bash -c 'mkdir /user/local/foo'`

* `COPY` copies local files into the container. The files needs to be in the same folder (or a sub folder) as the Dockerfile itself. An example is copying the requirements for a python app into the container: `COPY requirements.txt /usr/src/app/`.

* `CMD` defines the commands that will run on the Image at start-up. Unlike a `RUN`, this does not create a new layer for the Image, but simply runs the command. There can only be one `CMD` per a Dockerfile/Image. If you need to run multiple commands, the best way to do that is to have the `CMD` run a script. `CMD` requires that you tell it where to run the command, unlike `RUN`. So example `CMD` commands would be:
```
  CMD ["python", "./app.py"]

  CMD ["/bin/bash", "echo", "Hello World"]
```


* `EXPOSE` creates a hint for users of an image which ports provide services. It is included in the information which
 can be retrieved via `$ docker inspect <container-id>`.     

>**Note:** The `EXPOSE` command does not actually make any ports accessible to the host! Instead, this requires
publishing ports by means of the `-p` or `-P` flag when using `$ docker run`.  


## Write a Dockerfile
We want to create a Docker image with a Python web app.

As mentioned above, all user images are based on a _base image_. Since our application is written in Python, we will build our own Python image based on [Ubuntu](https://hub.docker.com/_/ubuntu/). We'll do that using a **Dockerfile**.

A [Dockerfile](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/builder/) is a text file that contains a list of commands that the Docker daemon calls while creating an image. The Dockerfile contains all the information that Docker needs to know to run the app; a base Docker image to run from, location of your project code, any dependencies it has, and what commands to run at start-up.

It is a simple way to automate the image creation process. The best part is that the [commands](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/builder/) you write in a Dockerfile are *almost* identical to their equivalent Linux commands. This means you don't really have to learn new syntax to create your own Dockerfiles.


1. Create a file called **Dockerfile**, and add content to it as described below. We have made a small boilerplate file and app for you in the [/4](./4/) folder, so head over there.

  We'll start by specifying our base image, using the `FROM` keyword:

  ```
  FROM ubuntu:latest
  ```

2. The next step usually is to write the commands of copying the files and installing the dependencies. But first we will install the Python pip package to the ubuntu linux distribution. This will not just install the pip package but any other dependencies too, which includes the python interpreter. Add the following [RUN](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/builder/#run) command next:
  ```
  RUN apt-get update -y
  RUN apt-get install -y python-pip python-dev build-essential
  ```


3. Let's add the files that make up the Flask Application.

  Install all Python requirements for our app to run. This will be accomplished by adding the lines:

  ```
  COPY requirements.txt /usr/src/app/
  RUN pip install --no-cache-dir -r /usr/src/app/requirements.txt
  ```

  Copy the application app.py into our image by using the [COPY](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/builder/#copy)  command.

  ```
  COPY app.py /usr/src/app/

  ```

4. Specify the port number which needs to be exposed. Since our flask app is running on `5000` that's what we'll expose.
  ```
  EXPOSE 5000
  ```

5. The last step is the command for running the application which is simply - `python ./app.py`. Use the [CMD](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/builder/#cmd) command to do that:

  ```
  CMD ["python", "/usr/src/app/app.py"]
  ```

  The primary purpose of `CMD` is to tell the container which command it should run by default when it is started.

6. Verify your Dockerfile.

  Our `Dockerfile` is now ready. This is how it looks:

  ```
  # our base image
  FROM ubuntu:latest

  # Install python and pip
  RUN apt-get update -y
  RUN apt-get install -y python-pip python-dev build-essential

  # install Python modules needed by the Python app
  COPY requirements.txt /usr/src/app/
  RUN pip install --no-cache-dir -r /usr/src/app/requirements.txt

  # copy files required for the app to run
  COPY app.py /usr/src/app/

  # tell the port number the container should expose
  EXPOSE 5000

  # run the application
  CMD ["python", "/usr/src/app/app.py"]
  ```

### Build the image

Now that you have your `Dockerfile`, you can build your image. The `docker build` command does the heavy-lifting of creating a docker image from a `Dockerfile`.

When you run the `docker build` command given below, make sure to replace `<YOUR_USERNAME>` with your username. This username should be the same one you created when registering on [Docker hub](https://hub.docker.com). If you haven't done that yet, please go ahead and create an account.

The `docker build` command is quite simple - it takes an optional tag name with the `-t` flag, and the location of the directory containing the `Dockerfile` - the `.` indicates the current directory:

```
$ docker build -t <YOUR_USERNAME>/myfirstapp .

```
!!!!MAKE THE OUTPUT!!!!

If you don't have the `ubuntu:latest` image, the client will first pull the image and then create your image. Therefore, your output on running the command will look different from mine. If everything went well, your image should be ready! Run `docker images` and see if your image (`<YOUR_USERNAME>/myfirstapp`) shows.

### Run your image
The next step in this section is to run the image and see if it actually works.

```
$ docker run -p 8888:5000 --name myfirstapp YOUR_USERNAME/myfirstapp
 * Running on http://0.0.0.0:5000/ (Press CTRL+C to quit)
```

Head over to `http://localhost:8888` or your servers URL and your app should be live.

### delete your image
